# Experiments with ORB-SLAM3 and emscripten 

Experiments to attempt to get [ORB-SLAM3](https://github.com/UZ-SLAMLab/ORB_SLAM3) working with emscripten.

Please use [the binvoc branch of my own fork of ORB-SLAM3](https://github.com/nickw1/ORB_SLAM3/tree/binvoc)

## Log

### 2022-06-10

Able to test on an actual Android device now, however some ongoing problems:
- memory alignment issue, see the [Emscripten Port issue in ORB-SLAM2 repo](https://github.com/raulmur/ORB_SLAM2/issues/264). This should be fixable once the issue below is fixed...
- still having problems with initialising tracking on a mobile device (works better on a desktop), even after updating camera parameters (currently using params output from OpenCV Android calibrator sample).

### 2021-12-12

Now starting to get tracking working. Added log messages to ORB-SLAM3 fork to identify causes of initialisation failure. Had to remove the time interval check win `Tracking::Track()` - not sure what impact that has. When two views are obtained, currently an unaligned memory access error occurs. Not sure of the cause of this at present.

### 2021-12-05

Using binary vocabulary file, now loads in 2s compared to more than 10 minutes :-)

### 2021-12-04 

Got ORB loading. Things to note:

- the `.data` file generated by emscripten needs to be copied from the `wasm` directory to the project root. This can probably be fixed with some configuration but this is on the todo list.

- note the security settings for the headers in `.htaccess`. These are necessary to allow `SharedArrayBuffer`, which is necessary for threading.

